#### P1 2013-10-01 

[The uncertain location of electrons - George Zaidan and Charles Morto](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=1)

You probably know that all stuff is made up of atoms and that an atom is a really, really, really, really tiny particle. Every atom has a core, which is made up of at least one positively charged particle called a proton, and in most cases, some number of neutral particles called neutrons. That core is surrounded by negatively charged particles called electrons. The identity of an atom is determined only by the number of protons in its nucleus. Hydrogen is hydrogen because it has just one proton, carbon is carbon because it has six, gold is gold because it has 79, and so on. Indulge me in a momentary tangent. How do we know about atomic structure? We can't see protons, neutrons, or electrons. So, we do a bunch of experiments and develop a model for what we think is there. Then we do some more experiments and see if they agree with the model. If they do, great. If they don't, it might be time for a new model. We've had lots of very different models for atoms since Democritus in 400 BC, and there will almost certainly be many more to come. Okay, tangent over. The cores of atoms tend to stick together, but electrons are free to move, and this is why chemists love electrons. If we could marry them, we probably would. But electrons are weird. They appear to behave either as particles, like little baseballs, or as waves, like water waves, depending on the experiment that we perform. One of the weirdest things about electrons is that we can't exactly say where they are. It's not that we don't have the equipment, it's that this uncertainty is part of our model of the electron. So, we can't pinpoint them, fine. But we can say there's a certain probability of finding an electron in a given space around the nucleus. And that means that we can ask the following question: If we drew a shape around the nucleus such that we would be 95% sure of finding a given electron within that shape, what would it look like? Here are a few of these shapes. Chemists call them orbitals, and what each one looks like depends on, among other things, how much energy it has. The more energy an orbital has, the farther most of its density is from the nucleus. By they way, why did we pick 95% and not 100%? Well, that's another quirk of our model of the electron. Past a certain distance from the nucleus, the probability of finding an electron starts to decrease more or less exponentially, which means that while it will approach zero, it'll never actually hit zero. So, in every atom, there is some small, but non-zero, probability that for a very, very short period of time, one of its electrons is at the other end of the known universe. But mostly electrons stay close to their nucleus as clouds of negative charged density that shift and move with time. How electrons from one atom interact with electrons from another determines almost everything. Atoms can give up their electrons, surrendering them to other atoms, or they can share electrons. And the dynamics of this social network are what make chemistry interesting. From plain old rocks to the beautiful complexity of life, the nature of everything we see, hear, smell, taste, touch, and even feel is determined at the atomic level.

| 单词  | 释义 | 单词 | 释义 | 单词 | 释义 |
| ----- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| stuff |   n. 物品，东西   |      |      |      |      |

#### P2 2013-10-03

[Why extremophiles bode well for life beyond Earth - Louisa Preston](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=2)  

We've all seen movies about terrible insects from outer space or stories of abduction by little green men, but the study of life in the universe, including the possibility of extraterrestrial life, is also a serious, scientific pursuit. Astrobiology draws on diverse fields, such as physics, biology, astronomy, and geology, to study how life was formed on Earth, how it could form elsewhere, and how we might detect it. Many ancient religions described other worlds inhabited by known human beings, but these are more like mythical realms or parallel universes than other planets existing in the same physical world. It is only within the last century that scientists have been able to seriously undertake the search for extraterrestrial life. We know that at the most basic level organisms on Earth need three things: liquid water, a source of energy, and organic, carbon-based material. We also know that the Earth is just the right distance from the Sun, so as not to be either frozen or molten. So, planets within such a habitable range from their own stars may be able to support life. But while we used to think that life could only exist in such Earth-like environments, one of the most amazing discoveries of astrobiology has been just how versatile life is. We now know that life can thrive in some of the most extreme environments that'd be fatal for most known organisms. Life is found everywhere, from black smoke of hydrothermal vents in the dark depths of Earth's oceans, to bubbling, hot, acidic springs on the flanks of volcanoes, to high up in the atmosphere. Organisms that live in these challenging environments are called extremophiles, and they can survive at extremes of temperature, pressure, and radiation, as well as salinity, acidity, and limited availability of sunlight, water, or oxygen. What is most remarkable about these extremophiles is that they are found thriving in environments that mimic those on alien worlds. One of the most important of these worlds is our red and dusty neighbor, Mars. Today, astrobiologists are exploring places where life might once have existed on Mars using NASA's Curiosity rover. One of these is Gale Crater, an impact crater created when a meteor hit the surface of Mars nearly 3.8 billions years ago. Evidence from orbit suggest past traces of water, which means the crater might once have supported life. Planets are not the only places astrobiologists are looking at. For example, Europa, one of the moons of Jupiter, and Enceladus and Titan, two of Saturn's moons, are all exciting possibilities. Although these moons are extremely cold and two are covered in thick ice, there is evidence of liquid oceans beneath the shell. Could life be floating around in these oceans, or could it be living around black smoker vents at the bottom? Titan is particularly promising as it has an atmosphere and Earth-like lakes, seas, and rivers flowing across the surface. It is very cold, however, too cold for liquid water, so these rivers may instead be flowing with liquid hydrocarbons such as methane and ethane. These are composed of hydrogen, and, more importantly, carbon, which is the basic building block of all life as we know it. So, could life be found in these lakes? Although instruments are being designed to study these distant worlds, it takes many years to build them and even longer to get them where they need to be. In the meantime, astrobiologists work in our own natural laboratory, the Earth, to learn about all the weird and wonderful forms of life that can exist and to help us one day answer one of humanity's oldest questions: Are we alone?

      
#### P3 2013-10-08 

[The operating system of life - George Zaidan and Charles Morton](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=3)  

Every chicken was once an egg, every oak tree an acorn, every frog a tadpole. The patch of mold on that old piece of bread in the back of your fridge, not so long ago that was one, solitary cell. Even you were once but a gleam in your parents' eyes. All these organisms share the same basic goal: to perpetuate their own existence. All lifeforms that we've discovered so far stay alive by using basically the same rules, materials, and machinery. Imagine a factory full of robots. These robots have two missions: one, keep the factory running, and two, when the time is right, set up an entirely new factory. To do those things, they need assembly instructions, raw materials, plenty of energy, a few rules about when to work normally, when to work quickly, or when to stop, and some exchange currencies because even robots need to get paid. Each factory has a high security office with blueprints for all the possible factory configurations and complete sets of instructions to make all the different types of robots a factory could ever need. Special robots photocopy these instructions and send them off to help make the building blocks of more robots. Their colleagues assemble those parts into still more robots, which are transported to the right location in the factory and given the tools they need to start working. Every robot draws energy from the central power plant, a giant furnace that can burn regular fuel but also scrap materials if not enough regular fuel is available. Certain zones in the factory have harsher working conditions, so these areas are walled off. But the robots inside can at least communicate with the rest of the factory through specialized portals embedded directly into the walls. And as you've probably figured out, what we're describing here is a cell. The high security office is the nucleus. It stores the blueprints and instructions as deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA. The photocopied instructions are RNA. The robots themselves are mostly proteins built from amino acids, but they'll often use special tools that are, or are derived from, vitamins and minerals. The walls between factory zones and around the factory itself are mostly made up of lipids, a.k.a. fats. In most organisms, the primary fuel source are sugars, but in a pinch, fats and proteins can be broken down and burned in the furnace as well. The portals are membrane proteins which allow very specific materials and information to pass through the walls at the right times. Many interactions between robot proteins require some kind of push, think robot minimum wage. A few small but crucial forms of money are transferred between proteins to provide this push. Electrons, protons, oxygen, and phosphate groups are the main chemical currencies, and they're kept in small molecular wallets or larger tote bags to keep them safe. This is biochemistry, the study of how every part of the factory interacts to keep your life running smoothly in the face of extreme challenges. Maybe there's too much fuel; your body will store the excess as glycogen or fat. Maybe there's not enough; your body will use up those energy reserves. Maybe a virus or bacteria tries to invade; your body will mobilize the immune system. Maybe you touched something hot or sharp; your nerves will let you know so you can stop. Maybe it's time to create a new cell or a new person. Amazingly, oak trees, chickens, frogs, and, yes, even you share so many of the same basic robot and factory designs that biochemists can learn a lot about all of them all at the same time.

      
#### P4 2013-10-08 

[What is the shape of a molecule - George Zaidan and Charles Morton](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=4)  

What is the shape of a molecule? Well, a molecule is mostly empty space. Almost all of its mass is concentrated in the extremely dense nuclei of its atoms. And its electrons, which determine how the atoms are bonded to each other, are more like clouds of negative charge than individual, discrete particles. So, a molecule doesn't have a shape in the same way that, for example, a statue has a shape. But for every molecule, there's at least one way to arrange the nuclei and electrons so as to maximize the attraction of opposite charges and minimize the repulsion of like charges. Now, let's assume that the only electrons that matter to a molecule's shape are the outermost ones from each participating atom. And let's also assume that the electron clouds in between atoms, in other words, a molecule's bonds, are shaped kind of like sausages. Remember that nuclei are positively charged and electrons are negatively charged, and if all of a molecule's nuclei were bunched up together or all of its electrons were bunched up together, they would just repel each other and fly apart, and that doesn't help anyone. In 1776, Alessandro Volta, decades before he would eventually invent batteries, discovered methane. Now, the chemical formula of methane is CH4. And this formula tells us that every molecule of methane is made up of one carbon and four hydrogen atoms, but it doesn't tell us what's bonded to what or how they atoms are arranged in 3D space. From their electron configurations, we know that carbon can bond with up to four other atoms and that each hydrogen can only bond with one other atom. So, we can guess that the carbon should be the central atom bonded to all the hydrogens. Now, each bond represents the sharing of two electrons and we draw each shared pair of electrons as a line. So, now we have a flat representation of this molecule, but how would it look in three dimensions? We can reasonably say that because each of these bonds is a region of negative electric charge and like charges repel each other, the most favorable configuration of atoms would maximize the distance between bonds. And to get all the bonds as far away from each other as possible, the optimal shape is this. This is called a tetrahedron. Now, depending on the different atoms involved, you can actually get lots of different shapes. Ammonia, or NH3, is shaped like a pyramid. Carbon dioxide, or CO2, is a straight line. Water, H2O, is bent like your elbow would be bent. And chlorine trifluoride, or ClF3, is shaped like the letter T. Remember that what we've been doing here is expanding on our model of atoms and electrons to build up to 3D shapes. We'd have to do experiments to figure out if these molecules actually do have the shapes we predict. Spoiler alert: most of the do, but some of them don't. Now, shapes get more complicated as you increase the number of atoms. All the examples we just talked about had one obviously central atom, but most molecules, from relatively small pharmaceuticals all the way up to long polymers like DNA or proteins, don't. The key thing to remember is that bonded atoms will arrange themselves to maximize the attraction between opposite charges and minimize the repulsion between like charges. Some molecules even have two or more stable arrangements of atoms, and we can actually get really cool chemistry from the switches between those configurations, even when the composition of that molecule, that's to say the number and identity of its atoms, has not changed at all.

      
#### P5 2013-10-09 

[Why don't oil and water mix - John Pollard](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=5)  

Why does salt dissolve in water but oil doesn't? Well, in a word, chemistry, but that's not very satisfying, is it? Well, the reason salt dissolves and oil does not comes down to the two big reasons why anything happens at all: energetics and entropy. Energetics deals primarily with the attractive forces between things. When we look at oil or salt in water, we focus on the forces between particles on a very, very, very small scale, the molecular level. To give you a sense of this scale, in one glass of water, there are more molecules than known stars in the universe. Now, all of these molecules are in constant motion, moving, vibrating, and rotating. What prevents almost all of those molecules from just flying out of the glass are the attractive interactions between molecules. The strength of the interactions between water, itself, and other substances is what we mean when we say energetics. You can think of the water molecules engaging in a constant dance, sort of like a square dance where they constantly and randomly exchange partners. Put simply, the ability for substances to interact with water, balanced with how they disrupt how water interacts with itself, plays an important role in explaining why certain things mix well into water and others don't. Entropy basically describes the way things and energy can be arranged based on random motion. For example, think of the air in a room. Imagine all the different possible arrangements in space for the trillions of particles that make up the air. Some of those arrangments might have all the oxygen molecules over here and all the nitrogen molecules over there, separated. But far more of the possible arrangements have those molecules mixed up with one another. So, entropy favors mixing. Energetics deals with attractive forces. And so, if attractive forces are present, the probability of some arrangements can be enhanced, the ones where things are attracted to each other. So, it is always the balance of these two things that determines what happens. On the molecular level, water is comprised of water molecules, made up of two hydrogen atoms and an oxygen atom. As liquid water, these molecules are engaged in a constant and random square dance that is called the hydrogen bonding network. Entropy favors keeping the square dance going at all times. There are always more ways that all the water molecules can arrange in a square dance, as compared to if the water molecules did a line dance. So, the square dance constantly goes on. So, what happens when you put salt in the water? Well, on the molecular level, salt is actually made up of two different ions, chlorine and sodium, that are organized like a brick wall. They show up to the dance as a big group in formation and sit on the side at first, shy and a bit reluctant to break apart into individual ions to join the dance. But secretly, those shy dancers just want someone to ask them to join. So, when a water randomly bumps into one of them and pulls them into the dance away from their group, they go. And once they go into the dance, they don't come back out. And in fact, the addition of the salt ions adds more possible dance positions in the square dance, so it is favored for them to stay dancing with water. Now, let's take oil. With oil, the molecules are sort of interested in dancing with water, so entropy favors them joining the dance. The problem is that oil molecules are wearing gigantic ballgowns, and they're way bigger than water molecules. So, when an oil molecule gets pulled in, their size is really disruptive to the dance and the random exchange of partners that the waters engage in, a very important part of the dance. In addition, they are not great dancers. The water molecules try to engage the oil molecules in the dance, but they just keep bumping into their dresses and taking up all the room on the dance floor. There are way more ways the waters can dance when the oil gets off the floor, so the waters squeeze out the oil, pushing it back to the bench with the others. Pretty soon, when a large number of oils have been squeezed over to the side, they band together to commiserate about how unfair the waters are being and stick together as a group. So, it is this combination of the interactions between molecules and the configurations available to them when they're moving randomly that dictates whether they mix. In other words, water and oil don't mix because they just don't make great dance partners.

      
#### P6 2013-10-14 

[Mysteries of vernacular - Lady - Jessica Oreck and Rachael Teel](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=6)  

Mysteries of vernacular: Lady, woman. Lady is tied to a number of words that seem at first glance etymologically unrelated. She traces her roots back to the Old English words hlaf, which referred to a loaf of bread and is the direct ancestor of our modern word loaf, and daege, which meant maid and is the root of our word dairy, the place where the dairymaid works. Together, hlaf and daege became hlafdige, literally loaf maid, or, more figuratively, kneader of bread. As early as the ninth century, hlafdige was the name for a mistress of servants, or the female head of the household. The Old English word for a male head of household was hlafweard, a compound of hlaf, loaf, and weard, which meant keeper and is the word of modern words like ward and warden. Both hlafweard, the breadwinner, and hlafdige, the bread kneader, came to be titles of respect, referring to citizens of higher social standing. Through a process known as syncopation, both words lost their internal sounds to become lord and lady, respectively. Though still an expression of courtesy, lady has since moved down the ladder of social standing and is now often used to mean simply a woman.

      
#### P7 2013-10-14 

[Mysteries of vernacular - Yankee - Jessica Oreck and Rachael Teel](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=7)  

Mysteries of vernacular: Yankee, a New England resident or, more generally, a person who lives in or is from the United States. Though the origin of Yankee is uncertain, this all-American word most likely descended from the Dutch moniker Janke, a diminutive meaning little Jan, or little John. In the 17th century, Janke was the common nickname of Dutch sailors, pirates in particular. A Dutch pirate ship operating in the West Indies was even called the Yankee. Over the years, Yankee transformed from a pirate's nickname into a general term of contempt. In 1758, British general James Wolfe used Yankee as a pejorative term for the colonists under his supervision. But the insult wasn't limited to soldiers. Yankee quickly came to mean New Englander, and by the 1780s, it was used to look down upon any American. During the Revolution, colonists co-opted Yankee and transformed it into a mark of national honor. The Civil War, however, intensified the derisive definition when it was used by Southerners to mock members of the Union. Today, it carries much less emotion, unless, of course, we're talking about baseball.

      
#### P8 2013-10-15 

[How atoms bond - George Zaidan and Charles Morton](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=8) 

Most atoms don't ride solo, instead they bond with other atoms. And bonds can form between atoms of the same element or atoms of different elements. You've probably imagined bonding as a tug of war. If one atom is really strong, it can pull one or more electrons off another atom. Then you end up with one negatively charged ion and one positively charged ion. And the attraction between these opposite charges is called an ionic bond. This is the kind of sharing where you just give away your toy to someone else and then never get it back. Table salt, sodium chloride, is held together by ionic bonds. Every atom of sodium gives up one electron to every atom of chlorine, ions are formed, and those ions arrange themselves in a 3D grid called a lattice, in which every sodium ion is bonded to six chloride ions, and every chloride ion is bonded to six sodium ions. The chlorine atoms never give the sodium atoms their electrons back. Now, these transactions aren't always so cut-and-dried. If one atom doesn't completely overwhelm the other, they can actually share each other's electrons. This is like a pot luck where you and a friend each bring a dish and then both of you share both dishes. Each atom is attracted to the shared electrons in between them, and this attraction is called a covalent bond. The proteins and DNA in our bodies, for example, are held together largely by these covalent bonds. Some atoms can covalently bond with just one other atom, others with many more. The number of other atoms one atom can bond with depends on how its electrons are arranged. So, how are electrons arranged? Every atom of a pure, unbonded element is electrically neutral because it contains the same number of protons in the nucleus as it does electrons around the nucleus. And not all of those electrons are available for bonding. Only the outermost electrons, the ones in orbitals furthest from the nucleus, the ones with the most energy, only those participate in bonding. By the way, this applies to ionic bonding too. Remember sodium chloride? Well, the electron that sodium loses is the one furthest from its nucleus, and the orbital that electron occupies when it goes over to chlorine is also the one furthest from its nucleus. But back to covalent bonding. Carbon has four electrons that are free to bond, nitrogen has three, oxygen two. So, carbon is likely to form four bonds, nitrogen three, and oxygen two. Hydrogen only has one electron, so it can only form one bond. In some special cases, atoms can form more bonds than you'd expect, but they better have a really good reason to do so, or things tend to fly apart. Groups of atoms that share electrons covalently with each other are called molecules. They can be small. For example, every molecule of oxygen gas is made up of just two oxygen atoms bonded to each other. Or they could be really, really big. Human chromosome 13 is just two molecules, but each one has over 37 billion atoms. And this neighborhood, this city of atoms, is held together by the humble chemical bond.

      
#### P9 2013-10-17 

[How we conquered the deadly smallpox virus - Simona Zompi](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=9)  

10,000 years ago, a deadly virus arose in northeastern Africa. The virus spread through the air, attacking the skin cells, bone marrow, spleen, and lymph nodes of its victims. The unlucky infected developed fevers, vomiting, and rashes. 30% of infected people died during the second week of infection. Survivors bore scars and scabs for the rest of their lives. Smallpox had arrived. In 1350 B.C., the first smallpox epidemics hit during the Egypt-Hittite war. Egyptian prisoners spread smallpox to the Hittites, which killed their king and devastated his civilization. Insidiously, smallpox made its way around the world via Egyptian merchants, then through the Arab world with the Crusades, and all the way to the Americas with the Spanish and Portuguese conquests. Since then, it has killed billions of people with an estimated 300 to 500 million people killed in the 20th century alone. But smallpox is not unbeatable. In fact, the fall of smallpox started long before modern medicine. It began all the way back in 1022 A.D. According to a small book, called "The Correct Treatment of Small Pox," a Buddhist nun living in a famous mountain named O Mei Shan in the southern providence of Sichuan would grind up smallpox scabs and blow the powder into nostrils of healthy people. She did this after noticing that those who managed to survive smallpox never got it again, and her odd treatment worked. The procedure, called variolation, slowly evolved and by the 1700's, doctors were taking material from sores and putting them into healthy people through four or five scratches on the arm. This worked pretty well as inoculated people would not get reinfected, but it wasn't foolproof. Up to three percent of people would still die after being exposed to the puss. It wasn't until English physician Edward Jenner noticed something interesting about dairy maids that we got our modern solution. At age 13, while Jenner was apprentice to a country surgeon and apothecary in Sodbury, near Bristol, he heard a dairy maid say, "I shall never have smallpox, for I have had cowpox. I shall never have an ugly, pockmarked face." Cowpox is a skin disease that resembles smallpox and infects cows. Later on, as a physician, he realized that she was right, women who got cowpox didn't develop the deadly smallpox. Smallpox and cowpox viruses are from the same family. But when a virus infects an unfamiliar host, in this case cowpox infecting a human, it is less virulent, so Jenner decided to test whether the cowpox virus could be used to protect against smallpox. In May 1796, Jenner found a young dairy maid, Sarah Nelmes, who had fresh cowpox lesions on her hand and arm caught from the utters of a cow named Blossom. Using matter from her pustules, he inoculated James Phipps, the eight-year-old son of his gardener. After a few days of fever and discomfort, the boy seemed to recover. Two months later, Jenner inoculated the boy again, this time with matter from a fresh smallpox lesion. No disease developed, and Jenner concluded that protection was complete. His plan had worked. Jenner later used the cowpox virus in several other people and challenged them repeatedly with smallpox, proving that they were immune to the disease. With this procedure, Jenner invented the smallpox vaccination. Unlike variolation, which used actual smallpox virus to try to protect people, vaccination used the far less dangerous cowpox virus. The medical establishment, cautious then as now, deliberated at length over his findings before accepting them. But eventually vaccination was gradually accepted and variolation became prohibited in England in 1840. After large vaccination campaigns throughout the 19th and 20th centuries, the World Health Organization certified smallpox's eradication in 1979. Jenner is forever remembered as the father of immunology, but let's not forget the Buddhist nun, dairy maid Sarah Nelmes, and James Phipps, all heroes in this great adventure of vaccination who helped eradicate smallpox.

      
#### P10 2013-10-18 

[Is time travel possible - Colin Stuart](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1Gf4y1y7wc?p=10)  

Have you ever daydreamed about traveling through time, perhaps fast forward in the centuries and seeing the distant future? Well, time travel is possible, and what's more, it's already been done. Meet Sergei Krikalev, the greatest time traveler in human history. This Russian cosmonaut holds the record for the most amount of time spent orbiting our planet, a total of 803 days, 9 hours, and 39 minutes. During his stay in space, he time traveled into his own future by 0.02 seconds. Traveling at 17,500 miles an hour, he experienced an effect known as time dilation, and one day the same effect might make significant time travel to the future commonplace. To see why moving faster through space affects passage of time, we need to go back to the 1880s, when two American scientists, Albert Michelson and Edward Morley, were trying to measure the effect of the Earth's movement around the Sun on the speed of light. When a beam of light was moving in the same direction as the Earth, they expected the light to travel faster. And when the Earth was moving in the opposite direction, they expected it to go slower. But they found something very curious. The speed of light remained the same no matter what the Earth was doing. Two decades later, Albert Einstein was thinking about the consequences of that never-changing speed of light. And it was his conclusions, formulated in the theory of special relativity, that opened the door into the world of time travel. Imagine a man named Jack, standing in the middle of a train carriage, traveling at a steady speed. Jack's bored and starts bouncing a ball up and down. What would Jill, standing on the platform, see through the window as the train whistles through? Well, between Jack dropping the ball and catching it again, Jill would have seen him move slightly further down the track, resulting in her seeing the ball follow a triangular path. This means Jill sees the ball travel further than Jack does in the same time period. And because speed is distance divided by time, Jill actually sees the ball move faster. But what if Jack's bouncing ball is replaced with two mirrors which bounce a beam of light between them? Jack still sees the beam dropping down and Jill still sees the light beam travel a longer distance, except this time Jack and Jill cannot disagree on the speed because the speed of light remains the same no matter what. And if the speed is the same while the distance is different, this means the time taken will be different as well. Thus, time must tick at different rates for people moving relative to each other. Imagine that Jack and Jill have highly accurate watches that they synchronize before Jack boards the train. During the experiment, Jack and Jill would each see their own watch ticking normally. But if they meet up again later to compare watches, less time would have elapsed on Jack's watch, balancing the fact that Jill saw the light move further. This idea may sound crazy, but like any good scientific theory, it can be tested. In the 1970s, scientists boarded a plane with some super-accurate atomic clocks that were synchronized with some others left on the ground. After the plane had flown around the world, the clocks on board showed a different time from those left behind. Of course, at the speed of trains and planes, the effect is minuscule. But the faster you go, the more time dilates. For astronauts orbiting the Earth for 800 days, it starts to add up. But what affects humans also affects machines. Satellites of the global positioning system are also hurdling around the Earth at thousands of miles an hour. So, time dilation kicks in here, too. In fact, their speed causes the atomic clocks on board to disagree with clocks on the ground by seven millionths of a second daily. Left uncorrected, this would cause GPS to lose accuracy by a few kilometers each day. So, what does all this have to do with time travel to the far, distant future? Well, the faster you go, the greater the effect of time dilation. If you could travel really close to the speed of light, say 99.9999%, on a round-trip through space for what seemed to you like ten years, you'd actually return to Earth around the year 9000. Who knows what you'd see when you returned?! Humanity merged with machines, extinct due to climate change or asteroid impact, or inhabiting a permanent colony on Mars. But the trouble is, getting heavy things like people, not to mention space ships, up to such speeds requires unimaginable amounts of energy. It already takes enormous particle accelerators like the Large Hadron Collider to accelerate tiny subatomic particles to close to light speed. But one day, if we can develop the tools to accelerate ourselves to similar speeds, then we may regularly send time travelers into the future, bringing with them tales of a long, forgotten past.
